The Project Gutenberg eBook of Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature,
Science, and Art, Fifth Series, No. 43, Vol. I, October 25, 1884, by
Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art,
       Fifth Series, No. 43, Vol. I, October 25, 1884

Author: Various

Release Date: October 3, 2021 [eBook #66462]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Susan Skinner, Eric Hutton and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL OF POPULAR
LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND ART, FIFTH SERIES, NO. 43, VOL. I, OCTOBER 25,
1884 ***




[Illustration:

CHAMBERS’S JOURNAL

OF

POPULAR

LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND ART

Fifth Series

ESTABLISHED BY WILLIAM AND ROBERT CHAMBERS, 1832

CONDUCTED BY R. CHAMBERS (SECUNDUS)

NO. 43.—VOL. I.      SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1884.      PRICE 1½_d._]




DINNER-PARTIES OUT OF DOORS.


Walking one wintery day along the promenade of a well-known Lancashire
watering-place, a large notice-board at the entrance of the pier
attracted our attention. A closer inspection showed that it bore the
announcement: ‘Feeding the sea-gulls from the pier-head every day at
noon.’ Curious to see what manner of performance this might be, we
paid the entrance-money, took a ticket for the tram-carriage which
was just about to start, and speedily found ourselves being whirled
smoothly along towards the end of the ‘first pier,’ as it is called,
which stretches across the sands for something like three-quarters of
a mile towards the deep channel. A short walk was necessary before
reaching the end of the extension pier, and there we found numbers of
visitors congregated, all, like ourselves, evidently waiting for the
performance to begin. Around, lay huge baskets of fish-offal; but where
were the expected guests? On every side, far as the eye could reach,
was a long expanse of flat sand, merging into the sea-line, with not
a vestige of rock to afford foothold or shelter for wild-fowl of any
kind. Yet, stay. By the margin of the waves, where it is now low water,
are what look like huge glistening white boulders, forming a continuous
boundary, whose snowy surface reflects the light, and glitters and
flashes under the rays of a December sun, set in so blue a sky as more
nearly to approach that of Italy than any we have yet seen in our
sombre-tinted British Isles.

Twelve o’clock strikes; a piercing whistle sounds, and even while
we are watching, these granite boulders—as, despite the geological
formation of the place, we persist in fancying them to be—literally
take to themselves wings, and fly towards us, a nearer approach showing
them to be vast aggregations of sea-gulls, which have been waiting till
the appointed signal should summon them to dine. No transformation
scene in a pantomime ever took place with more startling rapidity.
Round the pier-head, where all had been still and quiet, was now the
bustle and whirring noise made by countless gulls, each one intent
upon getting a share of the good things provided. On they come; now
swooping along in graceful flight right down to the surface of the
water, anon darting aloft with the coveted prize; poised momentarily in
mid-air, to see where a descent may most profitably be made, or engaged
in a keen struggle for the possession of some particularly toothsome
morsel. The whirl and commotion and changing beauty of the scene, it
were impossible to describe. Rendered tame by having experimentally
proved that the food scattered is no mere decoy meant to lure them to
destruction, but the outcome of an honest effort for their sustenance
and protection, they come so close as to afford every opportunity for
studying their free and graceful flight and the beauty of their form
and colour.

Something, we know not what, unless it be the fearless confidence with
which these wild-birds respond to the offered kindness, showing no
dread of the many spectators, carries us back in thought to the shores
of sunny Italy, and above all to Venice, that Queen of the Adriatic,
who, dethroned though she be, yet casts the spell of her irresistible
charm over all whose hearts beat responsive to the touch of beauty in
art; and those no less impressionable spirits over whom the hallowing
influence of long-past ages holds a sway so potent, that both alike are
fain to acknowledge her as empress of a far wider realm than any which
can be measured by mere geographical limitations. Let us take our stand
in the Piazza di San Marco, with its glorious many-domed cathedral,
its campanile pointing to the heavens, its ducal palace, clock-tower,
Moorish arcades, and that vastness of proportion, whose impressiveness
is heightened by the stillness so foreign to our modern life in other
cities where horse and vehicular traffic create an incessant, deafening
hum. Two o’clock sounds from the Torre dell’ Orologio. Immediately we
hear the soft swish of multitudinous wings, and down from the turrets
and pinnacles where they have been poised, ever-watchful, though
motionless, come the gentle, fearless doves to be fed. So tame are
they, that to move aside out of your path as you attempt to cross the
piazza, never seems to enter into their minds; and if, in your turn,
you purchase and begin to scatter a little parcel of corn, the pigeons
very soon find it out, and swarm over and upon you with the utmost
confidence in your friendly intentions towards them. Such a picture, we
imagine, is not to be paralleled elsewhere—one, for its suggestiveness,
quite equal in interest to those artistic treasures which lie so close
at hand.

Yet a third scene takes us to the grounds of a country-house in the
north of England. Here, during the intensely cold winter of 1878-9,
when for weeks everything was ice-bound, and all vegetation hidden
under a thick coating of snow, myriads of birds were saved from
perishing miserably of starvation through the thoughtful kindness
of the owner, who for weeks, running into months, provided, twice
daily, huge buckets of ‘stirabout,’ whose contents were emptied on to
a sort of wooden platform placed over the snow on the lawn. (For the
information of those who are not acquainted with the term, we may say
that ‘stirabout’ is nothing but coarse oatmeal mixed with water and
slightly boiled.) Very pretty was the scene witnessed at feeding-time.
Small birds, such as robins, finches, sparrows, tomtits, &c., would
cluster on the neighbouring bushes, which were literally bent down with
their weight, and reminded one of the ropes of onions so often seen in
country places. These birds showed no sort of shyness, but evidently
looked upon the food provided as simply their just recompense for
helping to free the fruit-trees from insect pests. Large birds, too,
used to come of species rarely seen near houses. Perhaps the prettiest
sight of all was to watch the squirrels, which seldom, however, made
their appearance until the birds had finished. Cautiously up the slope
of the lawn they would come, and then very contentedly sat munching
away, their bright eyes restlessly glancing here and there; but at the
very faintest sound, there was a sort of twinkle, and like a flash of
lightning, the squirrels had vanished from sight.

Fresh from recollections such as these, which the feeding of the
sea-gulls had brought vividly to memory, upon returning slowly down the
pier, we were unpleasantly roused by seeing that five out of every six
ladies we met were found to wear either wings or whole birds as the
so-called decoration of hats and bonnets. To say nothing respecting
the very questionable taste of wearing things which bear the semblance
of death, the wholesale slaughter of small birds which goes on to
satisfy the requirements of recurring fashion, cannot be too strongly
deprecated. On economic and utilitarian grounds, it is no less bad,
than from the more humanitarian standpoint, which makes us unwilling
needlessly to destroy creatures so full of life and joyousness as are
these winged denizens of earth and sky. In view of the threatened
injury to agriculture, an American periodical recently drew attention
to the great destruction of swallows which resulted from the demand for
their breasts and wings to ornament ladies’ bonnets, and called for
the enforcement of those laws which our cousins on ‘the other side’
have been wise enough to pass forbidding the killing of insectivorous
birds. Turning to an English fashion-book, we read the description
of a fancy-ball dress where swallows formed the staple adornment.
Bouquets of whole birds were to be placed upon the skirt and bodice;
birds in the hair, even wings upon the shoes! Unhappily, the plumage of
doves and swallows happens to harmonise with the shades of gray which
were worn, just as some years since did the breast of our poor friend
cock-robin suit with the deeper-toned hues which were then affected by
our _élégantes_. The result was that, around London at anyrate, robins
were for some time quite a rarity.

Surely any one who has witnessed such scenes as those we have so
imperfectly tried to describe, would hardly again order her milliner
to use birds as a decoration for dresses and bonnets. This special
form of cruelty, like so many other of our mistaken dealings with the
animal creation, probably springs more from ‘want of thought’ than from
‘want of heart.’ Its effects, however, are no less baneful than if
they were the deliberate outcome of a desire for wholesale slaughter.
The question is confessedly a difficult one, for it would be absurd to
say that there is anything wrong _per se_ in wearing the plumage of
pheasants, partridges, pigeons, cocks, and other birds which are killed
for purposes of food. The misfortune is, that when birds and wings are
once recognised as ‘the thing’ to wear, all birds, songsters as well,
will of a certainty be pressed into the service.

In the ‘Ladies’ Column’ of a French journal we have read: ‘Perhaps
fashion has never before laid the whole animal world to such an extent
under contribution. Not only are all sorts of insects, lizards,
spiders, bees, &c., imitated with marvellous fidelity to nature, but
the dead bodies of the creatures themselves are fastened on hats and
in the hair by means of golden pins. Nor is this all—upon hats, and
sometimes dresses, are seen stuffed birds, cats, mice, squirrels, and
even monkeys.’ The article went on to say: ‘We must acknowledge that
such innovations are more startling than graceful. On some bonnets, one
sees the heads of cats nestling amidst the folds of lace; others have
quite a family of mice, poking their little pink noses into knots and
loops of ribbon. It is a good thing that the animals are only stuffed
ones; else, if two bonnets thus adorned were placed in juxtaposition,
there would assuredly be a battle-royal.’

Lately, in England, we have ourselves seen bonnets and muffs which had
tiny kittens cosily reposing amidst the folds of silk and velvet. Such
gross violations of every canon of good taste and right feeling lead
us to ask, with something like a sigh of despair, what will the end be?
In the name of Humanity, we would entreat our lady friends to spare, at
anyrate, our Birds.




BY MEAD AND STREAM.


CHAPTER LIII.—PANSY.

Pansy and her grandfather, Eben Morris, were the persons whose arrival
at the _Masons’ Arms_ had interrupted Tuppit and his brother. Even had
Wrentham’s attention been disengaged, the light in the room was too dim
for him to recognise the girl before he was dragged out to the balcony.

Pansy had left home in a woeful state of mental perplexity; ashamed of
her conduct to Caleb, anxious to hide from every one and to suppress
in herself the silly fancies which had induced it. On alighting from
the train at Liverpool Street, she was as much frightened by suddenly
encountering Coutts Hadleigh as if he had been the Evil One himself.

‘Whither away, my forest nymph?’ he said with a smile in which there
was nothing more than the careless freedom he would have taken with any
pretty maid of the servant rank. ‘What brings you to Babylon?’

‘I am going to visit a sick friend,’ she answered, turning away her
face.

‘And when will you be back? We cannot afford to lose you from
Ringsford.’

‘I do not know—but I am in a hurry, sir;’ and she attempted to pass.

‘Stop a minute; you don’t know your way about the city. Where does your
friend live?’

‘I know the way quite well, thank you, sir,’ she replied nervously,
without giving the address.

‘Oh, that’s all right, then. I thought I might save you some time and
trouble by putting you on the right track.’

That was the whole of their conversation, and without looking at him,
she hastened to Gracechurch Street, where she obtained an omnibus
which carried her to the Green. Making her way through a narrow lane
of small houses in various stages of dilapidation, and through crowds
of ragged, gamboling children whose ages ranged from two to ten years,
she came to a comparatively open space. There was a wheelwright’s yard
with samples of his trade—fragments of wheels, whole wheels, three or
four broken-down carts of tradesmen—strewn about. The wheelwright had
some idea of beautifying this oasis in the crowded district; for on the
window-sills of his wooden house there were chrysanthemums in bloom,
and the bare twigs of a rose-tree trained against the wall, suggested
that in summer there might be pleasing perfumes and sights even in the
midst of squalor.

Opposite was a blacksmith’s shop, and nestling underneath the side of
it, a cobbler’s stall, where the occupant was busy singing a music-hall
song as he stitched and hammered. Passing between the wheelwright’s and
the smith’s places, she came to a square plot of ground—about an acre
in extent—which was divided into patches for the use of the dwellers
in the surrounding cottages. These were of one story, red-tiled,
with whitewashed walls, and with many indications of attempts to
cultivate flowers. It was like dropping out of the town into an old
country village; and indeed this was a relic of the ancient village of
Camberwell.

Pansy found that her grandfather’s illness had been much exaggerated
by the neighbour who had reported it, or that he had made a sudden
recovery, for when she arrived he was dressed and shuffling about
his little room, making preparations to start on what he called his
‘business round,’ whilst in a squeaky voice he kept on mumbling his
favourite phrase: ‘Oh, I am so happy!’ This agreeable announcement he
made on all occasions whether well or sick, and at times it formed as
grim a satire on the common lot as if a death’s-head sang a comic song.

He was a little man, and his shoulders being bent and contracted, his
stature was not much more than that of a dwarf. Although his body was
thin, his face was ruddy, set in a horseshoe of ragged gray hair. His
features were large—the chin particularly prominent—the brow such as
would have suggested intellect, but the dull faded eyes had little
speculation in them. Neither features nor eyes had the least expression
of laughter, whilst he was proclaiming himself in the highest glee. The
absurd phrase sounded more like a whine than a cry of exultation.

He had been a greengrocer for over forty years, and in that capacity
had daily made the round of the district to supply customers; but his
wife had been the real manager of the business. This good woman, with
shrewd foresight, insured their joint lives for the modest annuity
of thirty pounds, to be paid to the survivor. On her demise the old
man, then unfitted for hard work, was thus provided for. But he could
not get over the habit of going his daily ‘business round;’ the only
houses at which he now called, however, were the various taverns and
ale-houses on his route, and he always found in several of them some
cruel wags who were ready to give him ‘two pen’orth’ of beer or gin
in return for the sad exhibition of an old man in his dotage talking
nonsense and squeaking out snatches of ballads.

No persuasion could induce him to change his mode of life; and it
was probably as an obstinate protest against the persuasion that he
adopted his grotesque refrain of ‘Oh, I am so happy!’ Even on the
first day of Pansy’s arrival he insisted on going out as usual, and
she was obliged to be content with the promise that he would return
early. He was later than usual, however, and Pansy, resolute to rescue
him from this pitiable course, decided that she would in future meet
him before he had completed his round and entice him home. The first
attempt was successful; the second landed her with him in the _Masons’
Arms_—and she did not regret it after the discovery she made through
the conversation between Wrentham and his brother of what mischief had
been at work against Philip and Madge.

She was glad to be able to do something to show her gratitude and
affection; Madge had been always a good friend and adviser—especially
in her own present trouble. So, having seen her grandfather safely
housed, she travelled down to Willowmere.

The gravity with which Dame Crawshay received her, and the sad look
in Madge’s eyes, caused the visitor to fear for an instant that they
were offended with her; but she quickly understood that it was their
own sorrow which had made the change in their manner. There was another
reason, however, for the expression in Madge’s eyes—sympathy for the
pain which the girl must feel when she learned that Caleb Kersey had
been arrested on suspicion of having set fire to the Manor, and that
the evidence was strong against him. For the present, Pansy was only
told about the fire, and her immediate exclamation was:

‘Is father hurt?’

‘No, he is quite well, and poor Mr Hadleigh is lying in his cottage.
As soon as he can be moved, he is to be brought here, and we are
turning this room into a bedroom, so that he may not have to be carried
up-stairs.’

‘And the young ladies?’

‘Miss Hadleigh is still with her father; Miss Caroline and Bertha are
here.’

‘And thou’lt have to stay here to-night, too,’ broke in the dame as she
continued her rearrangement of the lighter pieces of furniture; ‘there
cannot be a corner for thee in the cottage.’

Pansy gave thanks to the dame, and went on to say that it was her
intention to return to her grandfather in the morning, but she would
‘see father before starting.’

‘I did not intend to be back so soon,’ she went on, with an awkward
glance first at Madge, next at Aunt Hessy. She did not know how to
convey her information with the least offence. ‘But there was something
I heard about Missy and Master Philip this afternoon that I thought she
ought to know—that you all ought to know.’

‘About Philip and me!’ exclaimed Madge, the colour heightening in
her cheeks as she wondered if it could be possible that the broken
engagement had already become the subject of common gossip.

‘Sit thee down, Pansy,’ said Aunt Hessy, ceasing to work, ‘and tell us
plainly what thou hast heard.’

Thus encouraged, the girl repeated with considerable accuracy the
substance of the conversation she had overheard.

‘And as I fancied,’ Pansy concluded, ‘that though you knew of the
mischief, you might not know how it was being put right—I came straight
to tell you.’

There was a pause. The treachery of Wrentham to Philip and the
villainous insinuations with which he had endeavoured to poison his
mind regarding Madge in order to distract him and prevent him from
looking too closely into business details—the whole wicked scheme
was made clear to Aunt Hessy. Madge saw at once how grossly Philip’s
generous confidence had been abused, but at the moment she did not
quite understand why Wrentham in carrying out his plot should be so
foolish as to try to slander her to Philip—she knew he could only _try_
to do it, for not one word against her would be credited for an instant
by her lover. And yet!... He had been so strange of late in many ways:
he had shown so much displeasure with her for maintaining Beecham’s
secret—what may he not have suffered from brief doubt, although he did
not believe in anything ill that was suggested to him.

‘Thou art a good girl, Pansy,’ said Aunt Hessy, kindly, but without any
sign of agitation, ‘and we thank thee for coming to us with what is
really good news—that the man is found out.’

‘Ay, mistress, I thought that would be good news for you—and his own
brother is against him!’

‘I am sorry for the poor brother.—Now go into the kitchen and get
supper with the maidens: make friends with Jenny Wodrow, for she will
be thy bedfellow to-night.’

Pansy obeyed, although she would have intensely liked to have had some
sign from Madge to show how the news had affected her.

‘I will see you before bedtime,’ said Madge in answer to the look; ‘I
have something to tell you.’

But Madge’s friendly intention to break the news to her of Caleb’s
position was frustrated. Jenny Wodrow, the maiden to whose graces
Pansy had been directed to recommend herself, although good-natured in
the main, had been ready to give more of her favour to the stalwart
Agitator than to any of the other lads about. That all the shafts
levelled at him with her bright eyes and soft tongue fell pointless,
she attributed rightly to the charms of the gardener’s daughter. In
church, in field, or at the harvest-home, Caleb had no vision for any
one but Pansy. The maidens saw, understood, and discreetly turned their
thoughts elsewhere.

Jenny was ready enough to follow their example, but she felt aggrieved
and a little spiteful, especially as Pansy, not being precisely ‘in
service,’ seemed to take a place above those who were ‘quite as good as
her any day, and maybe her betters.’ Jenny continued to think of Caleb
Kersey, and at present her head was full of his misfortunes. So, in the
bright kitchen where the huge fire was reflected on rows of shining
dish-covers and platters, and the supper of bread and cheese and beer
was being served on a massive white deal table, the chatter of the
maidens was all about the latest wonder, the burning of the Manor, and
the parlous state of Mr Hadleigh.

‘Ay, and who d’ye think they’ve taken up and put in prison for burning
the big house?’ said Jenny shrewishly, as she looked full in her
rival’s face. ‘Who but Caleb Kersey; and if the master dies, hanging
will be the end on’t.’

Pansy was frightened. She became red and then so white that young
Jerry Mogridge, who was not given to close observation of anybody when
engaged with his meals, growled at Jenny.

‘It’s darned spite that. Can’t you let the wench take supper in peace.’

‘She didn’t mean no harm,’ retorted a young ploughman who had his own
reasons for acting as Jenny’s champion. ‘How was she to know that
hearing the news was to spoil Miss Pansy’s supper. Ain’t she like the
rest ov us?’

‘You keep your tongue in your jaw—it ought to be big enough for it, I
believe,’ snorted Jerry, his mouth full of bread and cheese, his mug of
beer raised to his lips.

‘I’ll teach you, young man, to speak without splutter,’ cried Jenny,
administering a smart slap to poor Jerry’s back with a result fatal to
the contents of his mouth and mug.

The roar of laughter elicited by the coarse jest might have provoked
Jerry—half choked though he was—to further argument, had he not been
too well aware of the more immediate importance of securing the huge
brown jug in order to replenish his cup.

Pansy had slipped out of the kitchen during this passage-at-arms. She
was full of self-reproaches. Caleb arrested—in jail—in danger maybe of
hanging! And all through her fault! If Caleb had emigrated, she might
have consoled herself with the idea that in rejecting him she had
done him a great kindness—for every strong man made a fortune in the
colonies, she understood. But to think that she, however innocently,
had some share in driving him to this terrible crime—that was a thought
which made the poor girl’s heart and brain ache.

(_To be concluded._)




QUEEN MARGERIE.


When I look back on my schoolboy days, there is one scene that always
stands out before me with peculiar force and vividness; there is one
occurrence that happened then more deeply graven than any other upon my
memory; and that is no small thing to say, for I can call to mind any
number of exciting things that took place when I was at Greychester.
I could tell of many a victory that we gained, against heavy odds, by
land or water; for there was scarcely a Greychester lad who could not
pull an oar, as well as handle a bat, with more or less dexterity;
and both on the cricket-field and on the river our opponents always
found us pretty stubborn antagonists. I could tell many a story of our
adventures and hairbreadth escapes, and of those little exploits and
mischances of my own in which I figured as the hero or culprit, as the
case might be, from the day on which I received my first ‘swishing’
until I left as top of the Sixth. There is a grim sort of interest, I
always fancy, about one’s first sound thrashing, that makes it, in a
fashion, a landmark in a schoolboy’s career. Even now I remember how I
came by mine. It was soon after I entered the school, and I was in the
third form—Tunder’s. Old Tunder, we called him, not that he really was
old, for he was not much over forty, but to a schoolboy with the best
of life before him, forty seems a patriarchal age. Tunder was anything
but a profound scholar, and he was, moreover, very near-sighted, so
that there was perhaps some reason for the boys of his form being much
more distinguished for their proficiency in the art of practical joking
than for their attainments in any branch of knowledge. Anyway, the
third-form room was a very hotbed of mischief.

It happened that about this time we had hit upon a novel and pleasant
form of amusement with which to beguile the monotony of our studies,
Tunder’s defective vision giving us ample opportunity for the
recreation. There were to be had at the Greychester toyshops little
wooden frogs made to jump with a spring. It was a matter of intense
and absorbing delight to us to range our frogs in line and test their
powers by seeing which would take the longest jump. The excitement on
these occasions was great. Tunder’s cane was constantly being brought
into use, but until one ill-fated day I managed to escape it. One hot
summer afternoon, Smithson Minor, who sat next to me, brought out of
his pocket a couple of new spring-frogs, and making me a present of
one, proposed that we should have a match between them, just to see
what they were like. Now, if I had had my wits about me, I should have
suspected that some snare lay hidden under this unusual generosity
on the part of Smithson Minor, for, as a rule, he was not of a
giving sort, and rarely parted with anything but for full and ample
consideration. But I suspected nothing; the day was warm; a little
relaxation from our struggles in decimal fractions seemed desirable,
and old Tunder was safely moored at his desk just in front of us,
correcting exercises, so that Smithson’s proposal appeared both kind
and opportune, and met with a ready acceptance on my part.

But Smithson Minor, though I knew it not, was a traitor, and compassed
my ruin; for the frog which he had given me was equipped with a spring
of some fourfold strength. Somewhere in the course of his researches
at the toyshops he had come across it, and his keen scent for mischief
had quickly detected a rare opportunity for fun. He got his fun—at my
expense. The frogs were carefully stationed at the lower edge of the
desk, Smithson Minor giving them a last touch, just to see, he said,
that it was a fair start, but in reality to point mine in a particular
direction. The course would be the upward slope of the desk; ample
space, we thought—at least I thought—for the most actively disposed
jumper; and if by chance one of them did overshoot the mark and
tumble on the floor, then we should have the additional excitement of
recovering it at the risk of drawing on to us Tunder’s attention and
Tunder’s cane. Everything was ready; the critical moment came. The
frogs jumped, and mine won—won easily, beating all previous records,
for it soared majestically into the air and swooped down full on to
old Tunder’s nose! He regarded it quietly for a moment or two, and
then taking it into his hands, said slowly and sarcastically: ‘The
proprietor of this ingenious toy has evidently more leisure on his
hands than he knows how to dispose of; if he will kindly step this way,
I will give him something that will engage his attention for a time.’

I stepped that way, and found him as good as his word. I went back to
my place sadder, if not wiser, than when I left it; and for that day
and for several days to come, I found that a sitting posture was not
altogether free from discomfort.

Poor old Tunder! he was not a bad sort of fellow after all. He left the
school not very long afterwards, and then we found out how many kindly
and generous things he had done in a quiet unobtrusive sort of way. I
don’t suppose his salary as an under-master was a very large one, and
I know from what he said himself that he had no private income, so
that he must have practised considerable economy and self-denial to
have been able to indulge in those unsuspected acts of charity in the
poorer parts of Greychester which came to light after he had gone. I
have lost sight of him for some time; but if he should still be living,
and should chance to read these lines, he will see that in spite of the
spring-frog episode, I can still speak of him with respect, and even
affection.

But I am wasting time in gossiping about so paltry an affair as my
first flogging, and almost forgetting that I have a story of a very
different kind to tell—a story so tinged to a certain extent with
sadness, that even now it costs me something to relate it. Indeed, I
should not do so, did I not think that—apart from the passing interest
it may have—it may serve in some cases to point a moral and give a
warning.

Two of my particular chums at school were Frank and Charlie Stewart,
popularly known as the two young Hotspurs. Why, I will tell you. They
were fellows of the real good sort, as we used to say, good run-getters
in a cricket-match, and pulling a first-rate oar. Not that they were
dunces either, for they were never very low down in their forms, and
they had a quickness and readiness that carried them above fellows of
more plodding industry. They had one fault—I suppose every schoolboy
has one, many more than one—and it was this failing that gained them
their nickname. Kindly and good-natured enough as a general rule, each
of them had a quick and impetuous disposition, which was liable, under
no very great provocation, to blaze out into hot passion. They resented
anything like dictation or unfair treatment so much, that their high
spirit could at times scarcely brook even a fair and proper opposition
to their ideas and opinions, and instead of trying to gain their
argument, they would lose their temper. But, to do them justice, there
was nothing sullen, or mean, or vindictive about them; and their fits
of temper were shortlived. They tried earnestly to guard against their
besetting weakness, sometimes succeeding, and always bitterly lamenting
afterwards if they failed. Occasionally, they came to words between
themselves; but in a moment or two they would be as friendly as ever
again, pulling a pair together, or tossing for sides at cricket. Once,
however, they came to blows, and it is that scene which is so vividly
painted on my memory.

Like myself, the Stewarts were town-boys, and as our homes were not
very far apart, we generally went to and from school together, the
intimacy thus formed being gradually ripened by congenial tastes and
pursuits into a warm and lasting friendship, which made them almost
like brothers, and their house quite a second home to me. Their father,
who had been a retired naval officer, possessed of ample independent
means, had died a year or two before, and they lived with their widowed
mother and a sister—a child, when first I knew her, of about six or
seven. Margerie her name was—Queen Margerie, in a playful way, they
always called her; and well she deserved her title, for she held
absolute and sovereign sway over every heart in the household, and
indeed over all who knew her.

I wish I were a word-painter, so that I could portray Queen Margerie
as I see her in my mind’s eye now. I wish a more skilful hand
than mine could place the portrait before you—the portrait of a
child—somewhat small for her age, you might say, and perhaps somewhat
fragile-looking—with clustering soft brown hair, brightened here and
there by a gleam of gold; hazel eyes, always lit up with mirth and
happiness, except when the story of some one’s troubles filled them
with tears; and soft cheeks, where the shadow of ill-humour seemed
never to find a resting-place. And then, what pretty ways she had;
talking in such a demure, old-world fashion, with a voice deep for
a child, and yet with such music in it, and doing everything so
pleasantly and lovingly, that no wonder those about her made her their
idol.

Chief among the idolaters were her two brothers. If I had not seen
it, I should never have thought that two school-lads could have been
so tender and loving to a child. No trouble and no self-sacrifice did
they grudge her, gratifying her wishes, as far as lay in their power,
as soon as they were uttered; often, indeed, anticipating them before
they were spoken. It was curious, and yet pleasant, to see how they
would come to her with the story of their feats and adventures, like
knights of old, who valued most their victories in the jousts in that
they gained them the smile of the queen of the tournament. If either of
them had won a prize, or made the top score in a match, or done some
other redoubtable thing, his chief pleasure was in the thought of Queen
Margerie’s delight at the news. ‘Tell me all about it,’ she would say,
nestling eagerly close to him, ‘tell me every word—every word from
beginning to end.’ Then would he give her a full and graphic account,
she listening with growing interest the while, and gazing at him with
a look of pride, until the tale was ended; and then her joy at the
history of his success was to him his crowning reward.

Queen Margerie, how mother, brother, servants adored thee! I believe if
the sacrifice of their own lives had been necessary to preserve thine,
not one of them would have hesitated a moment to pay the price.

‘They overdid it,’ do you say? Nay, believe me, they did not, for a
child in the home may be among the very richest gifts for which heaven
claims our gratitude. A child’s presence may fill with sunlight the
house which else would be wrapt in gloom; a child’s influence may
preserve purity in the mind which but for it might become stained and
corrupted; a child’s love may serve to keep warm the heart which the
cares and worries of life might otherwise make cold and selfish.

‘I wonder,’ said Frank Stewart once to me, in an abstracted sort of
way, as if he had been pondering over some weighty matter—‘I wonder
what we should do if anything were to happen to Margerie; if she were
to—to go away.’

‘Go away!’ I replied in wonderment. ‘How can a child like that go away?
What do you mean?’

He made no answer, but went on, as if in continuance of his own
remarks: ‘It would kill my mother, and I think it would me, if Margerie
were to’—— Then he stopped short.

I began to understand his meaning; but I said no more, for this was
a sort of mood I had never seen Frank Stewart in before, and I did
not know how to meet it. So the conversation ceased, and for a time I
forgot all about it.

It was one afternoon some time after this that the Stewarts, one
or two other fellows, and myself, were going home from school, not
quite in our usual spirits, for a cricket-match we had played the
day before had ended—rather unusually for us—in our suffering a
disastrous defeat. True to human nature, instead of taking kindly to
our reverse of fortune, we tried to find a pair of shoulders on which
we might conveniently put the whole load of blame, and the owner of the
shoulders happened to be Frank Stewart, who had been the captain of our
Eleven, and who, we thought, had not managed matters very discreetly.
In the course of our discussion on the subject, the two brothers
irritated each other to such an extent that they came to blows. We
tried to pacify them; but in vain. I am afraid that, like every British
schoolboy, we had just a sort of lurking fondness for a good fair
fight, which made the fray not without interest for us. Anyway, we
watched it so intently that we did not see a childish figure come to
the garden-gate leading to the Stewarts’ house, and pausing a little
to take in what was passing, run quickly down the road towards us. We
saw and heard nothing until Queen Margerie was close to the struggling
lads, calling on them piteously to stop; but in a moment—blinded
and deafened with excitement—one of them stumbled against her, and
fell—dragging the other with him—heavily over her to the ground.

The boys quickly rose unhurt, but the child never stirred. There she
lay, the poor little face deadly pale, except where there were a
few stains of blood from a bruise on the temple; and one arm seemed
to have suffered some injury. There was for a moment a faint look
of recognition, just a feeble attempt to smile, and then there was
unconsciousness.

The whole thing took place so suddenly that none of us at first could
realise it. For an instant or two the Stewarts seemed perfectly dazed,
kneeling by the child, and calling her by name, as if she were only
making a pretence of being hurt, and would spring into their arms
presently. Then the truth seemed to burst upon them, restoring their
self-possession; for, taking the little form gently to his breast,
Frank Stewart strode hurriedly homewards, entreating us, as he went,
to bring a doctor. We lost no time on our errand, and medical help was
soon at hand. Shortly afterwards, we heard that the arm was fractured,
but that that was not so serious as the injury to the head, from which
the gravest results might be feared.

We did not see the Stewarts again at school during that term, of which
a few days only remained. For three days they watched with their mother
by the child’s bedside, scarcely ever taking food or sleep. At times
she was conscious, and gave them one of her old looks, or feebly held
out her hand to touch theirs. Once or twice she rallied enough to speak
a little, but not a word passed her lips about her injuries or the
cause of them. She only asked them not to forget her when she had gone,
for she seemed to think that the shadows would soon be falling about
her.

Once, I remember, when I called to make inquiries, Frank Stewart came
down to see me. I scarcely knew him, he looked so altered. ‘It is bad
enough to see her dying,’ he said, sobbing: ‘but to think of its being
my fault!’—and he broke down utterly.

What words of comfort could a schoolboy utter in the presence of such
grief? What could I say, when I feared they were only waiting for the
King’s messenger to take Queen Margerie where pain and weariness are
not known? For though the doctor said there _was_ a chance, that chance
seemed but a slender one.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fifteen years since then, is it? Why, it scarcely seems as many months.
How well I remember it, and yet my schoolboy days ended long ago, and
now I am a staid married man. My wife, to tell the truth, is sitting
near me as I write, and now and then she comes and looks over my
shoulder at what I have written, saying with a smile that she wonders
how I can exaggerate as I have done once or twice. I turn the tables on
her by replying that instead of being a help to me, she is my greatest
hindrance, for as long as she is in the room I am always neglecting my
work to look at her. And that is the truth. I am continually looking at
her, because, to my mind, she is the prettiest picture one can look at.
She has soft brown hair, with here and there a gleam of gold, bright
hazel eyes, and a gentle face without a trace of ill-humour. It is true
you may see on her forehead the faintest traces of a scar, but then, I
say, it is a beauty-mark. Sometimes she says, in a make-believe solemn
way, that she wonders how I could have married any one with one arm
stiff and good for nothing. But I know she is only joking, for I don’t
think her arm is a whit worse now than any one else’s.

But I am not the only one who worships her. There are her two brothers,
for instance, who are quite as foolish as I am. The elder of them is
a lieutenant in the navy, and he misses no opportunity of sending her
wonderful treasures and curiosities, which he collects for her on his
travels. Before long, our modest-sized dwelling will be a storehouse
of marvels. The other, a young lawyer, who lives with his widowed
mother, is a perfectly infatuated brother, and under one pretext or
another is always coming to see that all is going well with his idol.
I tell him sometimes, laughingly, that I shall become jealous if this
sort of thing goes on; that I shall forbid him the house, and bar the
doors against him! But my threats are of little use; for he says that
neither husband nor bolts nor bars shall prevent his coming, like a
loyal subject, to pay allegiance to Queen Margerie. For the one slender
chance did prevail, and my story ends happily after all.




ONE WOMAN’S HISTORY.


CHAPTER IV.

The day was an hour older. The heat of the afternoon sun was tempered
by a fresh breeze from the hills, which had sprung up a little while
ago. The windows of Madame De Vigne’s sitting-room stood wide open, and
the curtains waved to and fro in the breeze, but the room itself was
empty.

In a little while a sound of knocking was heard; but there being no
response, the door was presently opened, and Jules, followed by Lady
Renshaw and Miss Wynter, entered the room.

‘Pardon, milady, but Madame De Vigne is not here,’ said Jules.

At this moment Nanette, madame’s maid, entered the room, seeing which,
Jules made his exit. ‘You wish to see madame?’ inquired Nanette.

‘When she is at liberty,’ said her ladyship graciously.

‘What name shall I give madame?’

‘I am Lady Renshaw; and this is my niece, Miss Wynter.’

Nanette courtesied and went.

Lady Renshaw proceeded to make herself at home, appraising the
ornaments on the chimney-piece, peering into a photograph album,
turning over a book of engravings, trying a drawer or two in the
cabinet, and so on.

‘Really a charming room; quite the best in the hotel, I have been given
to understand,’ she remarked. ‘To think of the audacity of this Madame
De Vigne in engaging such a room for herself and party! But these
adventuresses are nothing if not audacious. Yes, a charming room; and
it will suit us admirably. And then the view—oh! the view’—going to the
window and peering out through her glasses. ‘It is _magnifique—très
magnifique_.’

Miss Wynter was sitting languidly in an easy-chair: she had a knack of
picking out the cosiest and softest chair in a room.

‘But you have not yet told me your reason, aunt’——

‘For wishing to make the acquaintance of this Madame De Vigne. I will
enlighten you.’

At this juncture Nanette re-entered the room. ‘Madame will be down in
the course of a few minutes, if your ladyship will please to wait.’

‘A French maid, too!’ burst forth Lady Renshaw the moment the girl
had left the room. ‘One would like to know how this woman came by her
money. Most probably at the gaming-table.’

‘O aunt!’

‘Happily for you, my dear, you know little of the world. You have never
been to Monaco, for instance. I have.—But to explain to you my reasons
for wishing to make the acquaintance of this—this person.’ Her ladyship
sat down and opened her fan. ‘On glancing through the Visitors’ Book
this afternoon—a thing which I always do as soon as I arrive at a
strange hotel—I found there the name of Mr Archibald Ridsdale.’

‘Aunt!’

‘I was not greatly surprised, after the note I received from Mrs
Delorme, Mr Ridsdale’s aunt, a few days before leaving town. She wrote
something to this effect: “I am given to understand that that foolish
nephew of mine is philandering somewhere among the Lakes in company
with those two adventuresses who have got him in their toils. Should
you come across the party in your travels, write me all particulars you
can pick up concerning them; and should any opportunity offer itself, I
hope you will do all that lies in your power to extricate Archie from
this dreadful entanglement.”—Well, my dear, as good fortune would have
it, here they all are—Mr Archie and the two adventuresses—in this very
hotel.’ And Lady Renshaw fanned herself complacently.

‘But under what pretext do you propose to introduce yourself to Madame
De Vigne?’

‘You will learn when the time comes,’ answered her ladyship with a
diplomatic smile. ‘Meanwhile, I have something very serious to say to
you.’

‘Yes, aunt.’

‘The season before last, Mr Ridsdale paid you very marked
attention—very marked indeed. He really seemed quite taken with you;
and it must have been entirely your own fault that you let him slip
through your fingers in the way you did. I was never more annoyed in my
life. But there is just a possibility that it may not be too late even
now to repair your wretched blunder.’

‘But Mr Ridsdale is engaged, is he not?’

‘O my dear, engagements nowadays are lightly made and as lightly
broken. It is quite possible that by this time the foolish young
fellow may be thoroughly cured of his infatuation for this young
woman, whom nobody seems to know anything about, and may be longing
for some friendly hand to snap the thread that binds him to her. It is
quite possible that when he sees you again he may’—— Here her ladyship
nodded meaningly at her niece. ‘You know what I mean. Now, if the
slightest chance is given you, I beg that you will play your cards
differently this time! Think! the only son of one of our richest and
oldest baronets! What a position would be yours! What a’—— Suddenly her
ladyship caught sight of something outside the window. She rose and
crossed the room and peered out through her glasses. ‘Why, I declare
there’s that young curate again, sitting under a tree all alone with
his book!’

Miss Wynter’s languor vanished in a moment. She started to her feet.
‘Where, aunt?’ she asked eagerly.—‘Yes, poor fellow; he does look
rather lonely, doesn’t he?’

‘I don’t suppose you have the slightest notion who the young man really
is?’ said her ladyship, with the air of a person who has made a grand
discovery.

Bella threw a startled look at her aunt. ‘No—no—of course not. How
should I?’ Then coaxingly: ‘But who is he, aunty dear?’

‘The son of a bishop, my dear.—What do you think of that?’

‘Good gracious!’ exclaimed the young girl with a gasp, as well she
might. ‘But how did you find that out, aunt?’

‘You remember that he told us his name was Mr Golightly?’

Bella nodded assent.

‘Well, on reaching the hotel I asked to see the Clergy List, where
I found that the only Golightly mentioned there is the Bishop of
Melminster. It’s by no means a common name, and this young man must be
the bishop’s son. I’ve not a doubt of it in my own mind.’

Lady Renshaw had evidently a fine faculty for leaping to conclusions
from very insufficient data.

‘O aunt, how clever you are!’ was the comment of the wicked Bella.

‘That’s as it may be, my dear,’ was the complacent answer. ‘What are
our brains given us for but to make proper use of them.’

‘Don’t you think Mr Golightly very nice-looking?’ asked Miss Wynter
with the most innocent air imaginable.

‘Intellectual-looking, no doubt. He has the air of a man who habitually
burns the midnight oil. I have no doubt that the dear bishop has
inculcated him with studious habits.’

It will be observed that her ladyship’s English was occasionally
a little slipshod, especially when she lugged long words into her
sentences with which she had only a bowing acquaintance.

Miss Wynter turned away to hide a smile. ‘What fun it will be to tell
all this to Dick, by-and-by!’ she said to herself.

‘We must cultivate him, my dear,’ resumed her ladyship, who evidently
deemed two strings better than one, to her niece’s bow. ‘In these
days, a bishop’s son is not by any means to be sneered at. Who knows
but that he may take a fancy to you! You must endeavour to sit next
him at dinner, and draw him gently on to talk of the subjects that
interest him, and then of course you will discover that you are deeply
interested in the same subjects yourself.’

‘I will do my best, aunt,’ responded Bella softly.

At this moment the door opened, and Madame De Vigne entered the room.
The two ladies rose simultaneously to their feet.

‘Lady Renshaw?’ said madame inquiringly, with a slight but stately
inclination of the head.

Her ladyship bowed in some confusion. ‘Madame De Vigne, I presume?’ she
contrived to stammer out. For once in a way her self-confidence had
deserted her.

‘Yes,’ was the simple answer, but still with the same look of inquiry
in the large, lustrous, melancholy eyes.

Never in her life had Lady Renshaw felt herself so much like an
intruder. She recovered herself somewhat behind the shelter of a little
cough. Then she said: ‘Before explaining my intrusion, allow me to
introduce my niece, Miss Wynter.’

The two ladies bowed, and the eyes of the elder one kindled with a
smile. There was something in the girl’s face that attracted her.

‘An adventuress indeed!’ exclaimed Bella to herself. ‘Aunt never made a
greater mistake in her life.’

Her ladyship had recovered her fluency by this time. ‘I must lay the
blame of our intrusion, Madame De Vigne, on the shoulders of Mr Archie
Ridsdale?’

‘Of Mr Ridsdale, Lady Renshaw?’

‘Archie is quite an old friend both of Bella and myself.’

‘I am pleased to make the acquaintance of any friends of Mr Ridsdale,’
responded Madame De Vigne gravely.—‘Will you not be seated?’

The three ladies sat down, Miss Wynter artfully choosing a seat near
the open window, whence she could glance occasionally at Mr Dulcimer,
who, to all appearance, was still intent upon his book.

‘And now to make a full confession,’ began her ladyship smilingly, as
she first opened and then shut her fan. ‘When we arrived here this
afternoon and requested to be shown to a private sitting-room, we were
informed that the hotel was full, and that there was not one to be
had for love or money. So I made up my mind that till a private room
should be vacant, my niece and I would have to content ourselves with
the accommodation of the ladies’ coffee-room. But, O my dear Madame De
Vigne, I had not been in the room ten minutes, before I found that it
would be an utter impossibility for us to stay there. Such a strange
medley of people I was never among before. Association with them, even
temporarily, was altogether out of the question. So told Bella not to
have our trunks unpacked, but that, after a little refreshment, we
would endeavour to find some other hotel where we could be properly
accommodated. But at this juncture I discovered that Mr Ridsdale was
staying here with a party of friends in their own suite of rooms. Then
a happy thought struck me, and I said to my niece: “Considering our
long friendship with dear Archie, I wonder whether we should be looked
upon as intruders if we were to go to Madame De Vigne and beg of her
to find space for us in a corner of her sitting-room during the two or
three days we intend staying in this place.”’ Here her ladyship, being
slightly out of breath, paused for a moment.

Miss Wynter had first turned red and then pale while listening to her
ladyship’s apology. ‘O auntie, auntie, what fibs you are telling!’ she
murmured under her breath.

‘So now, dear Madame De Vigne, you know all,’ resumed her ladyship.
‘If we shall incommode you in the slightest degree, pray tell us so at
once, and’——

Madame De Vigne held up her hand in gentle deprecation. ‘Not another
word is needed, Lady Renshaw,’ she said. ‘What you ask is a very small
favour, indeed. Pray, consider this room as yours during your stay. It
will please me much to know that you do so.’

‘Isn’t she nice!’ said Bella to herself admiringly. ‘If I were a man I
believe I should fall in love with her.’

‘You are really very kind, and I am more obliged to you than I can
say,’ remarked Lady Renshaw with her most expansive smile. ‘Archie too,
dear boy, will be immensely gratified when he finds us installed here.’
Then after a momentary pause, she added: ‘Do you purpose making much of
a stay among the Lakes, may I ask?’

‘I can scarcely tell. Our little holiday may come to an end in two or
three days, or it may extend to as many weeks.’

Bella’s gaze had been intently fixed on Mr Dulcimer. ‘I do believe he
is winking at me over his book!’ she cried to herself. ‘But he has
audacity enough for anything.’

‘Pardon the question, dear Madame De Vigne, but am I right in assuming
that, like myself, you have been left desolate and forlorn in this vale
of tears?’

‘I am a—a widow, if that is what you mean, Lady Renshaw.’

‘Then is there one more bond of sympathy between us. Never can I
forget my own loss. It was five years last Monday since poor dear Sir
Timothy died. But I see him every night in my dreams, and I carry his
portrait and a lock of his hair—he had not much hair, poor darling—with
me wherever I go. He was not handsome; but he was a most excellent
creature. He left me all he possessed, and—and he only lived two years
and a half after our marriage!’

The affecting picture was too much for her ladyship’s feelings; she
pressed her perfumed and delicately embroidered handkerchief to her
eyes. Madame De Vigne, with a slightly disdainful expression on her
pale features, sat as cold and unmoved as a statue.

‘How ridiculous of aunt to carry on in that style!’ thought Bella to
herself with a very red face.

Madame De Vigne turned to the young girl. ‘Is this your first visit to
the Lakes, Miss Wynter?’

‘Yes; I have never been so far north before.’

‘I hope you will be favoured with as fine weather as we have had. They
tell me that in these parts it sometimes rains for a week without
ceasing.’

‘O dear, how very depressing. I shouldn’t like that at all.’

By this time Lady Renshaw was ready to resume the attack. ‘Pardon me,
dear Madame De Vigne, but judging from the name, I presume your husband
was not an Englishman?’

‘He was a Frenchman, Lady Renshaw.’

‘Some of the most charming men I have ever met were Frenchmen. Am I
right in assuming that your loss is of an older date than mine?’

‘I lost my husband several years ago.’

‘Ah, then, Time has no doubt softened the blow to you. I am told that
it generally does; but, for my part, I feel that I can never cease to
mourn poor, dear Sir Timothy.—In all probability you have spent much of
your life abroad?’

‘I have lived abroad a great deal, Lady Renshaw.’ As she spoke these
words she rose abruptly and crossed to the other side of the room.
‘This woman is insufferable,’ she said to herself. ‘She must have some
motive for her questions. What can it be?’

‘There’s something in her life she wants to hide. I scent a mystery,’
remarked Lady Renshaw to herself with a fine sense of complacency.

Miss Wynter had again become absorbed in furtively watching Mr
Dulcimer. ‘Poor Dick, how sanctimonious he looks! But then, to be sure,
he’s the son of a bishop!’ she whispered to herself with a mischievous
twinkle in her eye.

Next moment the door was opened, and in came Miss Gaisford and Miss
Loraine. At the sight of strangers they stopped suddenly. Madame De
Vigne came forward. Lady Renshaw and Miss Wynter rose.

‘Lady Renshaw—Miss Wynter—permit me to introduce to you Miss Gaisford
and my sister, Miss Loraine.—Penelope, Clarice—Lady Renshaw and her
niece, Miss Wynter—friends of Mr Ridsdale.’

The two girls shot a critical glance at each other, as girls always do
when they are introduced.

‘The girl Archie’s engaged to!’ remarked Bella under her breath. ‘Well,
she’s awfully handsome; nobody can deny that. I suppose that by the
side of her I look a regular gipsy. That gown she’s got on was never
made in town. Quite a country cut. But how well she carries it off.’

‘What a very pretty girl!’ was Clarice’s unspoken comment. ‘Only I
never remember hearing Archie mention her name.’

As Lady Renshaw peered at Clarice through her eyeglass she
instinctively felt that if young Ridsdale were really engaged to
this splendid young creature, any hopes she might have cherished of
winning him away from her side were likely to end in smoke. She at
once admitted to herself that whatever pictures of the two sisters she
might previously have drawn in her mind’s eye were totally unlike the
reality. If these women were adventuresses, they certainly didn’t look
it, so far as her experiences of such beings went. None the less did it
seem certain that Archie was being inveigled into a marriage against
which his father would no doubt resolutely set his face. There was no
knowing what strange turn Fortune’s wheel might bring about. Meanwhile
she must watch and wait and keep her own counsel.

‘May I be permitted to assume, dear Madame De Vigne, that, with the
exception of Mr Ridsdale, your little party is now complete?’ queried
her ladyship.

‘Not quite, Lady Renshaw. We are still short of two friends—the Rev. Mr
Gaisford and Dr M‘Murdo, whose acquaintance you will doubtless make a
little later on.’

‘And that of their wives?’ asked her ladyship languidly with a graceful
sweep of her fan.

‘They haven’t any; they are bachelors,’ interposed Miss Gaisford
brusquely.

‘O-h. Bachelors are always interesting creatures in the eyes of our
sex, Miss Gaisford. But it is possible that the gentlemen in question
may be on the eve of changing their condition?’

‘Will this woman’s questions never cease?’ murmured Madame De Vigne to
herself.

‘Not at all, Lady Renshaw—not at all,’ responded the vicar’s sister.
‘They know too well when they are well off.’

‘O fie, now, Miss Gaisford! You must not turn traitress to your sex.
What are we sent into the world for if not to make the men happy!’

‘It seems like it to any one who reads the daily papers,’ was the grim
response.

‘By the way, dear, what has become of Mr Ridsdale?’ asked Madame De
Vigne of her sister.

‘He has gone as far as the post-office. He thought that the letter he
has been expecting for the last few days might perhaps be waiting there
for him.’

‘A letter from his father, without a doubt,’ muttered Lady Renshaw.
‘Probably the one containing Sir William’s final decision.’

Clarice had crossed to the window to speak to Miss Wynter. Suddenly
she gave a little start. ‘Why, I declare there’s Archie over yonder,
talking to that young curate whom we saw this afternoon. They seem to
be acquainted. And now they are coming this way.’

‘Good gracious! Dick coming here!’ exclaimed Miss Wynter under her
breath.

Archie Ridsdale entered the sitting-room from the veranda,
followed—bashfully—by Mr Richard Dulcimer, otherwise Mr Golightly.

‘Ladies all,’ began Archie, ‘allow me to introduce to you my old
friend and college chum, Dick Golightly—one of the best of fellows
when you come to know him, but, like the snail, of a most retiring
disposition—one of those people, in fact, whom it takes a deal of
persuasion to coax out of their shell.—Golightly, don’t blush,
there’s a dear boy; the ladies won’t eat you.—Madame De Vigne—Miss
Gaisford—Miss Loraine. You will know them all better by-and-by.—Now
don’t, for goodness’ sake, be a snail.’—Then turning, he exclaimed with
a well-feigned start: ‘Ah! Lady Renshaw, as I live!’ and with that he
held out his hand, which her ladyship grasped with much cordiality.

‘This is indeed an unlooked-for pleasure,’ he went on. ‘I never see
your ladyship without being reminded of what the poet says: “A thing of
beauty is a joy for ever.”’

‘Fie, you naughty boy’—tapping him with her fan—‘you are not a bit
improved since I saw you last.’

‘Allow me,’ continued Archie. ‘My friend, Mr Golightly—Lady Renshaw.’

‘I think that I have had the pleasure of meeting Mr Golightly
before—for a few minutes on the lawn this afternoon.’

Richard murmured something inaudible in reply. He was twisting his hat
between his fingers, and shifting uneasily from one foot to the other.
He tried his hardest to call up a blush, but failed ignominiously.

Archie had turned to Bella.

‘Surprises will never cease. My dear Miss Wynter, I am more delighted
to see you than I can express. Words are powerless in a case like
this.—Golightly, let me make you a happy man for ever by introducing
you to Miss Bella Wynter—one of the most charming and at the same time
most dangerous belles of the season.—Miss Wynter, do, for mercy’s sake,
take this unsophisticated youth under your wing, and try to coax him
out of his shell.’

‘Isn’t that rather a mixed-up metaphor, Mr Ridsdale?’

‘’Twill serve, as Mercutio says. You know my meaning.’

‘Mr—a—Mr Golightly,’ said her ladyship.

Richard turned, and the dowager motioned him with her fan to take a
seat beside her on the ottoman.

‘O Archie!’ said Bella in a whisper, ‘what a dreadful scrape you have
got poor Dick into by bringing him in here!’

‘Don’t you believe it,’ responded Mr Ridsdale with a grin. ‘For pure
impudence, I don’t know any young man of his years who’s a match for
Dicky Dulcimer. And as for throwing dust in Lady Renshaw’s eyes, the
scoundrel will revel in it—absolutely revel in it.’

‘Poor, dear aunty, if she only knew!’ said Bella with a touch of
compunction, which, however, by no means tended to dim the sparkle in
her eyes.

‘And how was the dear bishop, Mr Golightly, when you last heard from
him?’ inquired her ladyship in her blandest tones.

Dick stared, as well he might. ‘The bishop, Lady Renshaw!’ he stammered.

‘I mean your dear papa, of course. When I was quite a girl, I was
several times at Melminster.’

‘O-h!’ answered Dick with a prolonged indrawing of his breath. ‘I crave
your ladyship’s pardon. When last I heard from Melminster, every one
there was quite well.’

A light had begun to dawn on him. ‘She takes the bishop for my father,
whereas he’s only my godfather. Evidently the name has misled her,’ he
said to himself with an inward chuckle. ‘Well—bless her stupidity! It’s
no part of my duty to enlighten her.’

‘I am so glad to hear it,’ continued her ladyship innocently. ‘The
duties of such an exalted position must be very trying to the
constitution. For myself, I am happy to say that I have always been a
stanch upholder of the Establishment.’

Mr Golightly bowed, but had no reply ready.

‘I hope that we shall have the pleasure of a good deal of your society,
Mr Golightly, during the time you stay in these parts.’

‘Thanks. Delighted, I’m sure,’ lisped that model young man. ‘Mamma has
always been wishful that I should cultivate the society of ladies as
much as possible. Men nowadays—at least, lots of them—are so fast and
slangy, don’t you know. I always like to do as mamma bids me.’

‘A most exalted sentiment. I wish all young men thought as you do, Mr
Golightly. I should very much like to make the acquaintance of your
mamma. She must be a most estimable lady. I suppose, now, that you lead
a very quiet and domesticated life at the palace?’

‘At the palace! Oh—ah—yes, very quiet.’ Then he added to himself: ‘By
Jove, though, I haven’t been at the palace for nearly a dozen years—not
since poor old dad’s fortune collapsed. Bishops, like other people,
find it convenient to forget old friends when they have a mind to do
so.’

‘Charming young lady, Miss Wynter,’ Master Dick ventured to remark
presently to her ladyship.

‘I’m pleased you think so. Bella’s a sweet girl, though I say it who
ought not. She is looking towards us. I believe she has something to
say to you, Mr Golightly.’

‘Has she? Then perhaps your ladyship will kindly excuse me.’ He rose,
glad enough to get away from the dowager, and crossed to his lady-love.

‘A young nincompoop, if ever there was one!’ was the complimentary
remark that followed him. ‘Bella ought to be able to twist him round
her little finger.’

‘At last, my darling!’ whispered the young man as he drew a chair up
close to Miss Wynter.

‘You dreadful, dreadful Dick!’

‘What would I not venture for your sake, my pet!’

‘I’m not your pet.’

‘Deny it, if you dare. But what put all that rigmarole into her
ladyship’s head about my father the bishop, and’——

But at this moment the dull clangour of the dinner gong made itself
heard throughout the hotel. There was a general movement in the room.

‘I will talk to you later on. You may sit next me at dinner, if you can
contrive it,’ whispered Bella hurriedly before she joined her aunt.

‘Be careful in what way you talk to Mr Golightly,’ remarked the latter
lady in an undertone. ‘Above all, no frivolity; and don’t forget that
you have been brought up in a pious family.’

Archie came bustling up. ‘Now, Lady Renshaw, permit me the
honour.—Golightly, I leave you to look after Miss Wynter and Miss
Loraine.—By the way,’ he added, ‘what has become of the vicar and his
friend the doctor?’

‘It is only that Septimus is late as usual,’ answered Miss Pen. ‘That
big trout has detained him, and Dr M‘Murdo is with him. No doubt they
will turn up by the time dinner is half over.’

‘Are you not going to join us at dinner, dear Madame De Vigne?’
inquired the dowager with much suavity.

‘Not to-day, I think, Lady Renshaw. Will you allow me for once to plead
a woman’s usual excuse—a headache?’

‘So sorry.’ Then to herself: ‘She dines alone. Another evidence of a
mystery.’ Then aloud: ‘And you, dear Miss Gaisford?’

‘I? Oh, I never miss my dinner. They charge it in the bill whether one
has it or not. Even now the savoury odours of the soup reach me from
afar. I will join you anon.’

‘What an odd creature! Inclined to be satirical. I don’t think that I
shall like her,’ was the other’s unspoken remark as she sailed out of
the room on Mr Ridsdale’s arm.

Mr Golightly followed with the two young ladies.

Miss Gaisford drew a long breath of relief as soon as the door was shut.

‘And now, if I may be so inquisitive, pray, who is our redundant
friend?’

‘You know as much of her as I do,’ replied Madame De Vigne.
‘Introducing herself as a friend of Mr Ridsdale, she asked permission
to share our sitting-room on the plea that all the other private rooms
in the hotel were engaged. Under the circumstances of the case, I
scarcely saw my way to decline her request.’

‘Oh, we all know how soft-hearted you are, my dear friend. She would
not have found _me_ such an easy victim. If I am not mistaken, Master
Archie was as much annoyed as he was surprised at finding her here.’

‘I suppose we shall have the infliction of her company all evening,’
remarked Madame De Vigne with a little shrug of resignation.

‘I had forgotten that for the moment,’ answered Miss Pen musingly.
Then she added quickly: ‘No—no; of all nights in the year, she shall
not worry you to-night. When dinner is over, I will assign Dr Mac to
her—together with Septimus. They shall take her down to the lake to see
the moon rise—they shall even make love to her, if need be, so long as
they keep her out of the way.’ Then, after glancing at her watch, Miss
Pen went on, with a change of tone: ‘Another quarter of an hour and
Colonel Woodruffe will be here!’

Madame De Vigne did not answer.

Miss Pen took one of her hands. ‘Mora—dear friend,’ she said, ‘you will
treat him kindly to-night—more kindly than you did before?’

‘I shall not treat him unkindly.’

‘You will not refuse him what he asks? He is a noble, true-hearted man,
of whose love any woman might be proud. You will not say No to him this
time? You have made up your mind that this time the answer shall be
Yes?’

‘Does a woman ever really make up her mind beforehand?—is she ever
quite sure what her answer will be till the crucial moment has come?’

‘Thank goodness, _my_ mind is generally made up about most things;
but then, I’ve never been in love, and hope to goodness I never shall
be. Still, with so much of it about, there’s no knowing. Like many
other things, it may be catching.—But now, I must run off, or those
good people will have gobbled up all the soup.’ At the door she
turned. ‘Mora, I will never forgive you if the answer is anything but
Yes—yes—yes!’

‘There goes as true-hearted a friend as any woman need wish to have,’
said Mora. She sighed, and rose and crossed to the window. ‘If I could
but open my heart to her!—if I might but tell her everything! But not
even to her dare I do that. And yet _he_ must know—_he_ must be told!
What will he say—what will he do when he has read my letter? Ah me! I
tremble—I am afraid.’

On the side-table stood an ebony and ivory writing-desk. This she now
proceeded to open with a tiny key which hung from her châtelaine. From
it she took a letter, and then relocked the desk.

‘Shall I give it him, or shall I not?’ she asked herself, as she held
the letter between a thumb and finger of each hand and gazed intently
at it. ‘It is not too late to destroy it. No one in the world need know
that it was ever written. The temptation! the temptation!’

For a few moments she stood thus, gazing fixedly at the letter, as
though there were some power of fascination in it, her tall figure
swaying slightly to and fro. Then she roused herself as if from a
dream, and said to herself: ‘No! I should be unworthy of his love, I
should despise myself for ever, were I knowingly to let even the shadow
of deceit come between us. There must be no more hesitation.’ She
crossed to the chimney-piece and laid the letter on it. ‘Lie there till
he comes,’ she said. ‘I will not touch you again—for fear.’

She shivered slightly, as if struck by a sudden chill, and going back
to the window, she sat down in an easy-chair near it. A clock on the
chimney-piece struck the hour with silvery tone. She started. ‘A few
minutes more and he will be here,’ she said. She lay back in her chair,
her head pressed against the cushions, her eyes closed, her slender
fingers intertwined, in an attitude of utter abandonment. ‘Oh!’ she
murmured, ‘if the ordeal were but over!’

(_To be continued._)




THE MONTH:

SCIENCE AND ARTS.


The sudden appearance and subsequent disappearance of a volcanic island
off the coast of Iceland, reminds us that there are natural wonders
going on around us which cannot well be equalled in the pages of
romance. This island had the shape of a flattened cone rounded at the
top. It rose from the sea about twenty miles from the mainland. Last
century, a similar phenomenon presented itself near the same place; but
that island too had only a brief existence. It is not surprising that
such structures should in course of time be demolished by the action of
the waves, for these islands mostly consist of very loose materials,
such as slag, ashes, and pumice-stone, which are readily acted upon by
the surf. The disappearance of the island may, however, be due to other
influences than that of the sea.

Some interesting particulars of the voyage of the Danish gunboat
_Fylla_ to the arctic regions have been published. This vessel was
sent out by the Danish government on an exploring and surveying
expedition, which has occupied four months, during which time the
coast of Greenland has been explored to a very high latitude. Besides
this work, many meteorological observations have been made, whilst
dredging and trawling for specimens have been steadily pursued. Amongst
the valuables so collected, and which have been divided into sections
Botanical, Zoological, and Mineralogical, each under the care of a
professor, is a meteoric stone weighing about two thousand pounds.
Details of the expedition will be published at Copenhagen.

There are at present two large waterways in Africa upon which the
attention of many nations is fixed—namely, the Nile and the river
Congo. The interest regarding the first is of a military character,
with which these pages have little to do; but with regard to the Congo
there is much to claim our attention. Mr H. M. Stanley has recently
addressed the London Chamber of Commerce upon the subject, and has
given a most interesting account of his personal experiences among
the tribes inhabiting the valley of the great river. He describes the
natives as being peaceful and anxious to trade with more civilised
nations. The International African Association, of which Mr Stanley
is a member, was formed some years ago under the auspices of the king
of the Belgians, to put down slavery in this region, and to secure a
system of free trade for the commerce of the world. Traders of all
nations are invited by the Association to bring their goods to the
river Congo, which presents, including its affluents, a navigable river
of three thousand miles. When cordial relations between traders and
natives have been established, the Association will consider the object
of its existence to have been gained, and will be dissolved. The sole
hindrance to the successful carrying out of the programme seems to be
the presence of Portuguese settlers at the mouth of the river, which
they claim to have discovered about four hundred years ago. They regard
this discovery as an excuse for levying a heavy toll on every vessel
ascending the river.

A clever system, by which shafts can be easily sunk in watery soils and
quicksands, the invention of Herr Poetsch, was recently described in a
paper read before a French Technical Society. The space where the shaft
is to be sunk is marked out by a series of hollow iron tubes, which
are driven into the ground, and form a ring round the site. In these
hollow tubes are introduced smaller tubes, pierced with holes, through
which a refrigerating liquid is forced in a continuous current until
the ring of tubes is bound together by a wall of ice. By this means,
the intrusion of sand and water is prevented while the sinking of the
shaft is being accomplished. At a colliery in Prussia, belonging to
Messrs Siemens, this plan has been successfully adopted. Indeed, it is
difficult to see how the coal, which was overlaid by a quicksand, could
have been won by any other means.

A novel method of street-paving has been tried with some success in
Berlin; but as its trial only covers twelve months of traffic, it can
hardly be held to have proved its superiority over other systems.
The material is asphalt, but not treated in the usual manner. Bricks
impregnated with the compound, under which treatment they lose their
natural brittleness and become elastic, and capable of resisting heavy
pressure and damp, are laid in rows just like the wood-blocks used for
a similar purpose in this country. The new paving is said to last well
and to afford a sure foothold to horses. There is certainly an opening
for improvement in our present systems of paving.

Mr Hiram S. Maxim, whose name is well known in connection with a system
of electric lighting which was introduced by him a few years back,
has invented a machine-gun which has lately been exhibited in London,
and which gives some remarkable results. This gun has a single barrel
only, which is protected from undue heating by a water-jacket. The
cartridges are supplied to it in a continuous canvas belt, not unlike
the belt carried by sportsmen. The recoil of the gun at each discharge
is utilised in bringing forward the next cartridge, forcing it into
position, cocking the hammer and pulling the trigger, so that the
gun when once set going is automatic. If its attendant were killed
in action, the weapon would in fact go on firing its complement of
cartridges until the last one was expended. The rate of discharge can
be regulated from once a minute to the astonishing maximum of six
hundred per minute. The same system of belt-feeding has been applied by
Mr Maxim to ordinary rifles fired from the shoulder; and it is probable
that the attention of our War authorities will be called to the matter.

How few of us realise the fact that there are among the sixty-three
hitherto known elements of which this world is composed, no fewer than
fifty metals. A large number of these are so rare that they cannot
be said to have much importance; but frequently the so-called rare
metals are, as knowledge advances, stepping over the boundary-line
which separates them from metals having a commercial value. Of these,
aluminium and magnesium hold a foremost place. But now another metal,
iridium, often found associated with platinum and gold, is coming into
use. (Possession of or dealing with iridium has hitherto been forbidden
by Russian law, because it was found that gold was adulterated with it.
When gold so treated was afterwards worked at the Mint, the individual
particles of iridium indented the rollers, played havoc with the
machinery generally, and entailed great loss on the government.) It was
discovered a few years ago that this hard and intractable metal can be
readily fused by the addition of phosphorus, the resulting material
retaining all the hardness of the original metal. Hitherto, iridium has
been used almost solely for pen-points. There are now, however, many
uses found for it, among which we may mention draw-plates for wire, the
wearing parts of various philosophical instruments, and contact-points
for telegraphic apparatus.

An improvement in the art of glass-blowing has been introduced at the
works of Messrs Appert, at Clichy, of which it may be said that it is
remarkable that it was not adopted many years ago. Glass-blowers are by
reason of their occupation subject to various diseases of the lips and
cheeks, while the hot atmosphere in which they are compelled to work
renders their frames peculiarly liable to other disorders. Instead of
using the breath from the lungs to distend the bubble of molten glass,
Messrs Appert have adopted the method of storing air under pressure for
that purpose. The results are satisfactory in every way. The workman’s
health is greatly improved, and so is the quality of his work, while
the rapidity of production is naturally much increased.

The prorogation of parliament means not only the release from work of
the members thereof, but is also a welcome relief to that class of
newspaper readers who care little for acrimonious debate. During the
recess, space is found for much interesting matter that would otherwise
be lost, and those with hobbies, useful and otherwise, have opportunity
for airing their knowledge and their grievances. For instance, we
usually find in the newspapers many interesting letters on natural
history; and the doings of particular birds, beasts, and fishes form
the subject of much curious correspondence. The old question whether
the ubiquitous sparrow is the friend or foe of the farmer has once
more been raised. The evidence on this point is very conflicting, and
leads one to assume that the sparrow is mischievous or useful according
to local circumstances. One correspondent calls to mind a curious
collection of the contents of the crops of various birds which was
shown by a Frenchman at the Great Exhibition of 1851. This exhibit
clearly showed that the bulk of the food was insectivorous, the grain
being a minimum. On the other side of the discussion, we may refer
to a paper lately read at a Farmers’ Club in Chester in which it was
alleged that sparrows’ crops had been found with an alarming amount of
wheat in them, and operations for reducing the numbers of the feathered
pilferers were advocated. Still, the evil may be counterbalanced by the
good.

It has lately been proved by direct experiment at Marseilles that the
lower animals can be inoculated with the virus of cholera obtained from
a human patient, and that death ensues with the same symptoms as are
exhibited by mankind. It is believed that this fact will offer a sure
method of diagnosing a case of true cholera, a guinea-pig or a dog
serving as a necessary victim. Another curious observation has been
made respecting this dread disease. The gastric juice and the bile
tend to act as destroyers of the microbes. These secretions are most
abundantly brought to bear during a meal, but hardly at all when liquid
nourishment alone is taken into the stomach. It would therefore appear
that there is much less risk in drinking contaminated water with food,
than if it were merely taken alone to quench the thirst.

Mr James M. Share, R.N., sends us from South Africa a description of a
leak-stopper which he has invented, and which, from its simplicity and
cheapness, should command the attention of shipowners. It is founded on
the old system of hanging a sail over a ship’s side to stop the inrush
of water when from a collision or other cause a ship’s side suffers
injury. Mr Share’s stopper consists of a strong canvas sheet rolled up
upon an iron stove-pipe. By suitable gearing, the contrivance can be
dropped overboard in any required place, when the sheet unrolls and
covers the leaky place. It will therefore be seen that the invention
aims at doing in a ready and workman-like manner that which has been
done in haphazard fashion from time immemorial. We have particular
pleasure in calling attention to this invention from the circumstance
that its contriver does not intend to patent it, but offers it freely
as a useful contribution to the means of saving life at sea.

An English firm has patented an ingenious invention for the better
control of level-crossing gates on railways. The gates will be worked
by manual labour in the signal-box. These gates, which are of light
iron instead of the old-fashioned heavy wood, are closed and opened
by means of rods and chains working on wheels connected with the back
style of the gate. These wheels are covered in with cast-iron ‘wells’
or ‘boxes,’ and part of the top of these is movable, permitting free
and easy access to the underground workings. The rods are protected by
channels of wood, iron, or brick.

The capabilities of bicycles and tricycles must be reckoned among the
wonders of the age. Lately, the distance between London and Edinburgh
was covered in three days by a tricycle rider. This feat was surpassed
a week later by another traveller, who accomplished the four hundred
miles in two days and nine hours, considerably more than half the
distance being travelled in the first twenty-four hours. A medical
writer in the _Lancet_ warns all ‘cycle’ riders to beware of large
wheels which are accompanied by small saddles. He says that unless a
good-sized seat is provided, serious evils may result.

The second trial of the new French balloon, which, on its first ascent,
is reported to have travelled several miles against the wind in a
predetermined direction, seems to have been a failure. In the meantime,
a Russian aëronaut is constructing a balloon at St Petersburg which is
shaped like a cigar, is to carry sails, and will hold a steam-engine,
a crew of sixteen men, and a huge amount of ballast. Its contriver
reckons upon a speed of one hundred and sixty miles per hour. We shall
be curious to learn how this new machine behaves itself.

The ‘Refuse Destructor’ is the name of a very useful furnace recently
invented by Mr Stafford, the borough engineer of Burnley, which has
been doing such efficient work in consuming street and other refuse by
fire that it promises to be extensively adopted in other towns. Street
sweepings, the offal from slaughter-houses and fishmongers’ shops, and
unpleasant matter of all kinds treated in this furnace are rendered not
only harmless, but are converted into a residuum which can be utilised
for mixing with mortar and for other purposes. Hence the machine can
be made almost self-supporting. The erection of the plant at Burnley
cost only one hundred pounds; but here there happened to be an idle
chimney-stalk, so that there was no need to build one for the purpose.
At Richmond, Surrey, a furnace on the same principle is in course of
erection, and this will probably form a model for other metropolitan
suburbs.

In New York, a Company—called the New York Steam Company—is supplying
light, heat, and power to a large section of the city. One building
alone has steam furnished to it by means of a six-inch pipe. With this
supply it runs its elevators and works dynamo-machines for eighteen
hundred electric lights, the surplus steam being utilised for heating
purposes. The business of the Company is steadily increasing, and it is
believed that in another year many of the leading thoroughfares in New
York will be heated and lighted by its agency.

Recent experiments by Dr B. W. Richardson have demonstrated that the
killing of animals can be accomplished without any pain whatever, and
the suggestion that all slaughter-houses should be provided with the
means of accomplishing this must be supported by all humane persons. At
first it was believed that the desired end could be gained by employing
an electric current, and certain accidents which have occurred within
the last few years in connection with electric-lighting machinery
will serve to remind us that electricity can be made a most effective
life-destroyer. But electric apparatus is too cumbrous and costly
as well as too dangerous to intrust to unskilled hands. The recent
experiments point to carbonic oxide and chloroform as being the best
agents for the purpose in view.

An electric lighthouse has recently been erected on the island of Raza,
at the entrance of the Bay of Rio Janeiro. The lighthouse stands upon
a rock two hundred and thirty feet above the sea, and the building
itself is eighty-five feet high. The light is thus three hundred
and fifteen feet above the sea. The electric current is produced by
a continuous current Gramme machine, working at the rate of seven
hundred revolutions, and feeding a light of two thousand candle-power.
The Gramme machine is worked by a stationary surface-condensing
steam-engine, this arrangement being occasioned by want of fresh water.
To provide for accidents, an oil-lamp is always kept in readiness, and
the whole of the engine fittings are very cleverly made double in case
of a breakage. The light is revolving, and has two white disks and one
red one, succeeding one another at certain intervals, and is said to be
visible at thirty-five miles.

Last month we referred to an exhibition of insects injurious to
plant-life in connection with a flower-show at Frome. It seems
that this town must now divide the honour of such an exhibit with
Portobello, in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, where two glass cases
were displayed at the local flower-show lately, containing specimens of
various insects injurious to plants and flowers. A prize was awarded to
the exhibitor who had with praiseworthy diligence collected and shown
more than fifty specimens of such insects.

In the month of August, a grilse measuring fourteen inches in length
was taken from the Scottish salmon-rearing pond at Howietoun. This and
many others in the pond were raised from the ova and milt of salmon
taken from the river Teith in December 1880. The specimen was a female,
with the ova well advanced. This, according to Mr Francis Day, solves
the question that our salmon may not only be reared in a healthy state
in suitable ponds of fresh water, but also, if properly cared for, will
breed without descending to the sea. Last year, the milt of the parrs
(young of the salmon) from this pond was successfully used for breeding
purposes.

Every invention or improvement calculated to alleviate human suffering
is deserving of our approbation, and should be widely made known.
As it is well known that smallpox and contagious fevers are often
communicated during the conveyance of patients even in properly
constructed ambulances through the streets to the fever hospitals, it
has occurred to Dr Gayton, Senior Medical Officer of the Metropolitan
Asylums Board, to substitute for the present open glass or wooden
louvre shutters adopted in these carriages, a double layer of
perforated metal, inclosing an absorbent material saturated with a
‘germicide,’ or destroyer of the minute microscopical particles which
tend to propagate disease. Fresh air is admitted through modified
and improved ‘Tobin’ ventilators of a horn-shape, with the large end
opening externally; whilst the smaller extremity is provided, inside
the van, with a disinfecting air-chamber, constructed like those
attached to the other apertures or windows. It is gratifying to know
that these improved ambulances are in use by the Metropolitan Asylums
Board in conveying patients to their different hospitals both ashore
and afloat.

Another clever invention for saving life and limb has been brought
out by Mr J. Lindley, of the Clifton and Kearsley collieries, to
prevent accidents from the breaking of the winding-rope when raising
or lowering a cage full of miners. This consists in connecting the
lower ends of the top rods to a pair of levers mounted on each side of
the cage, the other end of the levers being forked and connected to
opposite ends of a pair of links which are fastened to the ordinary
wooden or iron guide-rods. As soon as the cage is released by the
breaking of the rope, the inner arms of the levers rise and force the
links together. The inner side of the forks being provided with wedge
projections, which come in contact with similar projections on the
sides of the links, the cage remains suspended, wedged fast to the
guide-rods, instead of being hurled to the bottom, to the probable
destruction of its unfortunate occupants. This useful invention should
be at once adopted in every colliery and mine in the kingdom, for as a
‘life-saving’ apparatus it certainly admits of no doubt.




VACCINATION.


The following communication from a medical man connected with the
Smallpox Ambulance Service of London will be welcomed by all who are
interested in the subject of vaccination.

‘Having read,’ says the doctor, ‘with interest the article on
“Vaccination” in your _Journal_ of September 20, and being brought
much in contact with smallpox—about three thousand cases having passed
through my hands during the last few months—I hope you will allow me to
offer a few remarks on some of the points treated of in your _Journal_.

The question of the relative protection of calf lymph and of humanised
lymph is, as you say, not settled. One of the principal authorities of
the present time on smallpox strongly disapproves of calf lymph, and I
have been told by others connected with smallpox hospitals that they
had known smallpox develop in persons recently vaccinated with calf
lymph.

The experiments on animals with cholera _bacilli_ recently described in
the medical papers seem to show that the infecting agent, whether it be
the _bacilli_ or a _materies morbi_ transported by them, undergoes very
important changes by being “cultivated” in the system of animals of a
different species from those from which it was first taken.

With respect to the possibility of transmitting certain constitutional
diseases by vaccine lymph, I may mention that an eminent authority on
smallpox tried to inoculate himself with lymph from diseased children,
and came to the conclusion that it is possible, but so difficult, that
in practice this risk may be excluded.

With regard to the possibility of infants escaping registration, and
consequently vaccination, I have found that the number of unvaccinated
persons who come under my care is so small that we may look on the
system for securing vaccination of infants as practically nearly
perfect, so far as London is concerned.

The protection given by vaccination is not absolutely complete. Persons
exposed to smallpox in small rooms, where the doors and windows are
rarely open, and the poison is undiluted by abundance of fresh air,
contract smallpox whether vaccinated or not. The severity of the
disease in the two cases differs, however, so greatly as to establish
without doubt the value of vaccination. On the other hand, practical
immunity against smallpox is given by comparatively recent vaccination
or re-vaccination, when the patient is surrounded by plenty of fresh
air, and proper attention is given to cleanliness of the patient’s
person and clothing; and amongst the hundreds of persons employed in
the metropolitan smallpox hospitals, a case of death from smallpox,
when re-vaccination has been successfully performed, is unknown.’




NO TEARS.


    ‘No tears to weep!’ And wherefore not?
      Say, is thy sorrow such?
    And has thy heart no tender spot
      That sympathy may touch?
    Can no kind word unlock the springs,
      And give thy tears their flow?
    Are human woes such selfish things,
      That none their depths may know?

    ‘No tears to weep!’ Nay, speak not thus,
      For tears can bring relief,
    And God has sent them unto us
      To wash away our grief.
    When earthly sorrow, pain, and care,
      Our souls in sadness steep,
    We pray to Him who heareth prayer,
      To send us tears to weep.

    Tis true the world is sometimes dark
      With gloomy clouds that rise,
    And trembling Hope, with waning spark,
      Fades faintly out—and dies!
    But when some heavenly vision fair
      Steals o’er us in our sleep,
    We wake with joy to feel that _there_—
      There are no tears to weep.

            NANNIE POWER O’DONOGHUE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Conductor of CHAMBERS’S JOURNAL begs to direct the attention of
CONTRIBUTORS to the following notice:

_1st._ All communications should be addressed to the ‘Editor, 339
    High Street, Edinburgh.’

_2d._ For its return in case of ineligibility, postage-stamps
    should accompany every manuscript.

_3d._ MANUSCRIPTS should bear the author’s full _Christian_ name,
    Surname, and Address, legibly written; and should be written on
    one side of the leaf only.

_4th._ Offerings of Verse should invariably be accompanied by a
    stamped and directed envelope.

_If the above rules are complied with, the Editor will do his best to
insure the safe return of ineligible papers._

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed and Published by W. & R. CHAMBERS, 47 Paternoster Row, LONDON,
and 339 High Street, EDINBURGH.

       *       *       *       *       *

_All Rights Reserved._

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL OF POPULAR
LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND ART, FIFTH SERIES, NO. 43, VOL. I, OCTOBER 25,
1884 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
